add batch stt + openai compat guide (#147)
cartesia-ai/docs: fern/api-reference/stt-migrate-from-openai.mdx

---
title: "Migrating From OpenAI Whisper to Cartesia Ink"
description: "Use Cartesia's Batch Speech-to-Text API with OpenAI's client libraries"
---

> <Info>
> **Batch Speech-to-Text**: This documentation covers OpenAI SDK compatibility for Cartesia Ink's batched transcription endpoint.
> 
> For real-time transcription, use our [Streaming STT endpoint](/api-reference/stt/stt).
> </Info>
> 
> Cartesia's Batch Speech-to-Text API provides compatibility with OpenAI's client libraries through the `/audio/transcriptions` endpoint. This allows for easy migration of your use cases to Cartesia's Ink STT.
> 
> ## Endpoint Options
> 
> You have two ways to access Cartesia's Batch STT functionality:
> 
> - **Cartesia Native**: `/stt` - Our primary endpoint with full feature support
> - **OpenAI Compatible**: `/audio/transcriptions` - OpenAI-compatible endpoint for seamless migration
> 
> ## OpenAI SDK Usage
> 
> For OpenAI SDK users, use the `/audio/transcriptions` endpoint which provides compatibility with OpenAI client libraries:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Info>
Batch Speech-to-Text: This documentation covers OpenAI SDK compatibility for Cartesia Ink's batched transcription endpoint.

For real-time transcription, use our [Streaming STT endpoint](/api-reference/stt/stt).
</Info>

Cartesia's Batch Speech-to-Text API is compatible with OpenAI's client libraries, enabling seamless migration from OpenAI Whisper.

## Endpoints

**Cartesia Native:** `/stt` - Full feature support  
**OpenAI Compatible:** `/audio/transcriptions` - Drop-in replacement for OpenAI Whisper

## Migration Guide

Replace your OpenAI base URL with Cartesia's endpoint to use the `/audio/transcriptions` compatibility layer.
```
